README.md, before:

# Secure Backup Container

This project provides a Dockerized secure backup solution using `rsync` over WireGuard.

## How it works

The container runs an `rsync` daemon that is only accessible through a WireGuard tunnel. The user connects to the container using a WireGuard client, and then can use `rsync` to transfer files to the backup server.

The container is designed to be secure and isolated:
- The `rsync` daemon is the only service exposed over the WireGuard tunnel.
- The user cannot get a shell on the container.
- The WireGuard server public key is generated on the first run.
- The `rsync` password and the client's WireGuard public key are configurable through environment variables.

## How to use

### 1. Build the Docker image

```bash
docker build -t secure-backup .
```

### 2. Run the Docker container

You need to provide two environment variables when running the container:

- `WG_CLIENT_PUBLIC_KEY`: Your WireGuard public key.
- `RSYNC_PASSWORD`: The password you want to use for `rsync` authentication.

For persistent WireGuard keys and data, you should create directories on your host machine and mount them as volumes.

```bash
# Create directories on the host
mkdir -p ./wireguard-keys
mkdir -p ./backup-data

# Run the container with volumes
docker run -d --cap-add=NET_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_MODULE -p 51820:51820/udp \
  -v $(pwd)/wireguard-keys:/etc/wireguard \
  -v $(pwd)/backup-data:/data/backups \
  -e WG_CLIENT_PUBLIC_KEY="<your_client_public_key>" \
  -e RSYNC_PASSWORD="<your_rsync_password>" \
  --name secure-backup-container \
  secure-backup
```

**Notes:**
- The `--cap-add=NET_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_MODULE` capabilities are required for WireGuard to work.
- Mounting `./wireguard-keys` to `/etc/wireguard` ensures that the server's WireGuard keys are persisted across container restarts.
- Mounting `./backup-data` to `/data/backups` ensures that your backed-up data is stored on the host and not lost if the container is removed.


### 3. Get the server's public key

The first time you run the container, it will generate a new WireGuard key pair for the server and print the public key to the logs. You need this public key to configure your WireGuard client.

```bash
docker logs secure-backup-container
```

You will see an output like this:

```
====================================================
Dumping public server key to the logs:
<server_public_key>
====================================================
```

### 4. Configure your WireGuard client

Configure your WireGuard client to connect to the container. Here is an example client configuration:

```
[Interface]
PrivateKey = <your_client_private_key>
Address = 10.0.0.2/32

[Peer]
PublicKey = <server_public_key>
Endpoint = <your_server_ip>:51820
AllowedIPs = 10.0.0.1/32
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

Replace `<your_client_private_key>` with your client's private key, `<server_public_key>` with the public key you got from the container's logs, and `<your_server_ip>` with the IP address of the server where the container is running.

### 5. Use rsync to connect to the backup server

Once you are connected to the WireGuard tunnel, you can use `rsync` to transfer files to the backup server.

You will need to create a password file on your client machine with the `rsync` password you set in the `RSYNC_PASSWORD` environment variable.

```bash
echo "<your_rsync_password>" > ~/.rsync-password
chmod 600 ~/.rsync-password
```

Now you can use `rsync` to transfer files:

```bash
rsync -av --password-file=~/.rsync-password /path/to/your/files/ backupuser@10.0.0.1::backups
```

This will transfer the files from `/path/to/your/files/` on your local machine to the `/data/backups` directory inside the container.

Commit message:

feat: Make WireGuard configuration persistent
The WireGuard configuration is now generated only on the first run and is persistent across container restarts. This removes the need to provide the client's public key as an environment variable.

A check has been added to ensure that the client's public key is configured before starting the rsync server.

README.md, after:

# Secure Backup Container

This project provides a Dockerized secure backup solution using `rsync` over WireGuard.

## How it works

The container runs an `rsync` daemon that is only accessible through a WireGuard tunnel. The user connects to the container using a WireGuard client, and then can use `rsync` to transfer files to the backup server.

The container is designed to be secure and isolated:
- The `rsync` daemon is the only service exposed over the WireGuard tunnel.
- The user cannot get a shell on the container.
- The WireGuard server public key is generated on the first run.
- The `rsync` password and the client's WireGuard public key are configurable through environment variables.

## How to use

### 1. Build the Docker image

```bash
docker build -t secure-backup .
```

### 2. Run the Docker container

You need to provide an environment variable when running the container:

- `RSYNC_PASSWORD`: The password you want to use for `rsync` authentication.

For persistent WireGuard keys and data, you should create directories on your host machine and mount them as volumes.

```bash
# Create directories on the host
mkdir -p ./wireguard-keys
mkdir -p ./backup-data

# Run the container with volumes
docker run -d --cap-add=NET_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_MODULE -p 51820:51820/udp \
  -v $(pwd)/wireguard-keys:/etc/wireguard \
  -v $(pwd)/backup-data:/data/backups \
  -e RSYNC_PASSWORD="<your_rsync_password>" \
  --name secure-backup-container \
  secure-backup
```

**Notes:**
- The `--cap-add=NET_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_MODULE` capabilities are required for WireGuard to work.
- Mounting `./wireguard-keys` to `/etc/wireguard` ensures that the server's WireGuard keys and configuration are persisted across container restarts.
- Mounting `./backup-data` to `/data/backups` ensures that your backed-up data is stored on the host and not lost if the container is removed.


### 3. Get the server's public key and configure the client

The first time you run the container, it will generate a new WireGuard key pair for the server and print the public key to the logs. You need this public key to configure your WireGuard client. It will also create a default `wg0.conf` file.

```bash
docker logs secure-backup-container
```

You will see an output like this:

```
====================================================
Dumping public server key to the logs:
<server_public_key>
====================================================
Please edit /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf to add your client's public key
```

You need to edit the `wg0.conf` file on the host machine (in the `./wireguard-keys` directory) and add your client's public key to the `[Peer]` section.

Example `wg0.conf`:
```
[Interface]
Address = 10.0.0.1/24
ListenPort = 51820
PrivateKey = <server_private_key_will_be_here>

[Peer]
PublicKey = <your_client_public_key>
AllowedIPs = 10.0.0.2/32
```

### 4. Configure your WireGuard client

Configure your WireGuard client to connect to the container. Here is an example client configuration:

```

```
[Interface]
PrivateKey = <your_client_private_key>
Address = 10.0.0.2/32

[Peer]
PublicKey = <server_public_key>
Endpoint = <your_server_ip>:51820
AllowedIPs = 10.0.0.1/32
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

Replace `<your_client_private_key>` with your client's private key, `<server_public_key>` with the public key you got from the container's logs, and `<your_server_ip>` with the IP address of the server where the container is running.

### 5. Use rsync to connect to the backup server

Once you are connected to the WireGuard tunnel, you can use `rsync` to transfer files to the backup server.

You will need to create a password file on your client machine with the `rsync` password you set in the `RSYNC_PASSWORD` environment variable.

```bash
echo "<your_rsync_password>" > ~/.rsync-password
chmod 600 ~/.rsync-password
```

Now you can use `rsync` to transfer files:

```bash
rsync -av --password-file=~/.rsync-password /path/to/your/files/ backupuser@10.0.0.1::backups
```

This will transfer the files from `/path/to/your/files/` on your local machine to the `/data/backups` directory inside the container.
